Is there advice you would give to a young person today that looks up to the
stars and wonders what the heck they wanna do with their life.
So career science, life in general,
you've, uh, for now chosen a certain kind of path of curiosity.
What, uh, what insights do you draw from that,
that you can give us advice to other?
I think for somebody, I,
I would not presume to speak to giving people advice on,
on life and humanity overall, but for somebody thinking of
being a scientist. So there are a couple of things,
one sort of practical thing, which is a career wise.
I hadn't appreciated this going into science, but you need to,
so the,
the questions you're working on and the techniques you use are both
of very high importance, maybe equal importance for being happy in your career.
Um, if there are questions you're interested in and,
but the techniques that you need to use to do them are tedious for you.
Then your job is gonna be miserable, even if the questions are inspiring.
So you have to find,
but if the techniques that you use are things that excite you,
then your job is fun every day.
So for me, I'm fascinated by the solar system and I love telescopes,
and I love doing data analysis, playing with data from telescopes,
coming up with new ways to use telescopes.
And so that's where I have found that mesh. But if I was interested in,
you know, the dynamical evolution of the solar system,
how the orbits of things evolve,
then I would need to do a different type of work that I would just not find as
appealing. And so it just wouldn't be a good fit. And so it sort of is,
seems like an unromantic thing to have to think about the techniques being the
thing you wanna work on also, but it really makes a profound difference for,
I think, your happiness in your scientific.
Career. I think that's really profound. It's like the thing, the menial tasks,
if you enjoy those, that's really good sign that that's the right path for you.
I think David at foster Wallace said that, uh, the key to life is to be unable.
Like so BA basically everything should be exciting.
I don't think that's feasible,
but you should find an area where everything is exciting. I mean,
depending on the day, but you could find the joy in everything,
not just the big, exciting about things that everyone thinks is exciting,
but the, the details, the,
the repetitive stuff, the me stuff, the stuff that takes years,
the stuff that involves a lot of failure and all those kinds of things that you
find that enjoyable. That's, that's actually really profound to focus on that.
Uh,
cuz people talk about like dreams and passion and goals and so on the big thing,
but that's not actually what takes you there? It takes you.
There is every single day putting in the hours and that's what actually makes up
life is the boring bits. And if the boring bits aren't boring,
then that's an exciting life.